[Music]
so most people would say if you're a
managing director at Goldman life can't
be much better than that why did you
choose to leave my ex-boss there said I
can believe you're joining a taxi
company so far what would you say you're
most proud of having achieved as the
president of DD for the company I think
I'm much too proud that we are providing
10 billion trips a year and serving all
different type of need are you thinking
of going public we do have a specific
IPO timetable I screwed it that way
would you fix your time please well
people wouldn't recognize me if my tie
was fixed but just leave it this way all
right I don't consider myself a
journalist and nobody else would
consider myself a journalist I began to
take on the life of being an interviewer
even though I have a day job running a
private equity firm
how do you define leadership
what is it that makes somebody tick one
of my friends invested over a number of
years ago it was at a three billion
dollar market value I said well he's
going to lose all his money
no ride-hailing company can be worth
three billion dollars in fact obviously
uber turned out to be worth a staggering
these larger sums of money and I was a
publicly traded company I had the same
reaction when I heard about a company
called DD DD was a small uber-like
company in China and I didn't think it
could catch on there but I was wrong
again
DD today is the largest single
ride-hailing company in the world the
person running that company is a young
woman from China named Jean Lee Yoo she
rose up because of her intellect or hard
work and now she's the president of DD
it's an incredible success story she is
one of the best-known women business
leaders in China an extremely
intelligent articulate person who is
clearly going to make this company even
more successful as she continues to lead
it
[Music]
we're here we're jeans the you who is
the president of DD which is the largest
mobile transportation company in China
and one of the largest in the world
so when DD was started in 2012 it wasn't
the first or wasn't the only company
that was doing this is that right yes
there were 30 players 30 30 doing
exactly the same thing did you have
anything that was better than the other
29 or what were your advantages of the
other companies yeah we worked really
hard we worked really hard for example
you know there are a lot of very strong
competitors right and when you know
there are big competition I had we you
know we sat down together and think
about what's our strategy how can we
provide better value so we launched you
know four business lines in three months
let's say year 2015 so there were a lot
of moments that we really work very hard
and try to catch up so there's another
company in the United States called uber
yes
which you're probably familiar with yes
the one who burst started it grew very
quickly in the United States and in
other parts of the world and it also had
a division in China so in many places
uber said well we will roll over our
competition but in one point country
they weren't able to do that and that's
China in China you ultimately came to a
deal where in effect you merged but you
became the parent company in effect uber
is an investor in your company now is
that right yes are you an investor now
and uber as well yes okay so small small
investor in their company but your
company now has grown to the point where
how many riders do you have a day on
your main taxi-hailing business right we
have hundreds of millions of users right
every month
yeah hundreds of millions of users you
have more users every month and less is
that right and today what are your other
businesses when talked about uber first
of all I have to say we are very
thankful for the competition it make us
better and stronger and when uber first
came to China you know their war chest
is bigger what's bigger than our market
cap right so because of a competition
they help
to push ourselves to launch different
product lines so starting from taxi we
launched the private cars in different
end price and black premier you know and
Express line and then later we have a
hitch which is a social carpooling
product and now we bikes and electric
bikes so right we probably offer more
than 10 services to our users
so most Chinese companies that are
technology leaders like Alibaba $0.10 I
do have dominant positions in China but
so far they haven't taken dominant
positions outside of China
now you are taking positions outside of
China and building your business outside
have you been very successful outside of
China so far I wouldn't call you know we
are very successful I think it's very
encouraging we see very encouraging
result we're in Brazil Mexico Colombia
we are in the Latin market and we are
just entering into Australia market and
Japan market how do you have to change
everything for the different markets at
different qualities you have to bring to
the table how do you make your service
better for each of these individual
countries I think we provide our service
to the local people by combining two
things one is our global technology
architecture and then local innovation
right so we tailor make products for
different market product in preserving
product in Japan very different unlike
other companies they may do copy paste
we have one product in the States and
you know cookie cutting for other
markets so it's a very different
approach
so you mentioned some countries that
you're in you didn't mention you're in
the United States are you prohibited
from going in the United States or it's
a very crowded market okay so not like
that happen any time soon yeah we hope
you know I think our philosophies as
long as we can do something differently
if we can bring some user value then we
will consider if it's just you know same
product only compete on pricing we don't
see the point now the United States and
China have a trade dispute that has been
going on for a while does that affect
your business in one way or another
to be honest that doesn't really impact
our business because we
you know we're supported by our local
passengers and drivers however you know
I would think you know we have been
benefited from trading and sharing over
years right and you know it's it's
unfortunate to see this and we of course
we hope you can get resolved so if I'm
an American tourist and I want to use
your service I'm in China is it easy to
do do I have to speak Chinese to be able
to do it at all we have a great English
version really yes we have a grading
English version and actually a lot of
our employees colleagues are from
overseas
from different countries especially now
we have a global business
uber is now publicly traded and it's
losing a fair amount of money every year
a billion dollars plus a year or
something like that or more are you
thinking of going public and are you
losing money or are you making money
mm-hmm well we do have a specific IPO
timetable let's put it that way and back
to the weber point I'm sure it's
temporary and they would go through it
there is very diligent CEO in a very
experienced for us we think
profitability is natural result of the
value you really create and there are
two things in China very different from
the other market first the right here is
cheaper than car ownership so that's the
huge value creation you provide to your
users and secondly in China we are going
through a transition that people you
know people urge for better life quality
better lives and people want to spend
more money the average age of your wide
share customers is what is it a lot of
30 or 20 to 30 20 actually a lot of them
are students from college or just you
know McKinsey third year analyst so
people who are 50 60 or 70 they're not
your target audience as much know that
they are actually we definitely want to
you know you know make our technology
more accessible to everyone
yeah back to the question of your
profitability you you are profitable on
our core business your business yeah one
of the businesses that is not your core
and I think you spun it off was your
automatic driving with this driverless
autonomous so why did you spin it off
and when do you think autonomous driving
will actually be very common yeah
actually you know I think it will take
huge commitment for autonomous
technology to mature technology wise and
also commercial wise right so any
company who wants to succeed in that
view to need to be prepared to spend
money and human resources into it so we
view you know we want to attract the top
talent and make it independent so people
fear we want to join this as a young
company and at the same time we also we
are advantage because we run the large
largest Network right for a geofencing
autonomous car to run is easy right in
California it could be much easier than
in Beijing so we have this huge amount
of data so that makes us fear we know
we're advantaged just how many years
away before you actually really it would
be a long time a long time means five
five five to ten years you just blend
that off because it's not gonna be that
profit of one in the near future yeah I
think it's a we are doing the investment
period when you join the company had a
market valuation of 500 million more or
less so I let's suppose I say I like
what you've said I'd like to invest in a
five hundred million dollar valuation
could I do that today not really no no
you
through your background your father is
well known in the business world in
China he was the founder of the novo yes
and did he say to you you need to go
into some kind of computer related thing
when you grow up not really he did no
not really
he didn't put any pressure on you to get
into the business ah not at all so you
went to Peking University yes and you
majored in computer science yes okay so
after you graduated and I let me ask you
in Peking University is it like the
United States where there are more men
than women in computer science we in our
class there were 36 students 30 of them
were men okay so you graduated
presumably you did well but then you
decided to leave China to go to a school
in the United States
Harvard was that hard to get into it was
hard to get into right so you went to
Harvard and you got a master's in
computer science and did you find
Harvard easier or harder than you
thought it would be well I wouldn't say
it harder or easier I think it's more
interesting and you know my key purpose
to go abroad is to see the world and to
meet different people and it was totally
rewarding ok now your English is by my
view perfect and so not really pretty
good where did you get this English at
Harvard or to get it in China I think I
probably get it in China you know in
China you know we started to learn
English starting from elementary school
so you if you have some good English
teacher at school you actually get
pretty okay but I wouldn't come eyes
English perfect so when you graduated
from Harvard did you decide to go to a
great Chinese firm like Goldman Sachs
yes actually
it was almost accidental to join gomen I
did summer interning Goldman as in
research division as an IT engineer in
New York and and I thought it was
fascinating when people are doing so I
decided I want to apply it for a
full-time job that's why I ended up in
investment banking division in Hong Kong
as well right so you went there after
you graduated you went to Hong Kong and
you stayed there twelve years yes and
you became a managing director yes
so most people would say if you're a
managing director at go
life can't be much better than that mhm
and so you're on your way up to the very
top why did you choose to leave yes a
lot of people ask me that question
especially when I resign from gomen my
ex-boss there said I can't believe
you're joining a taxi company because
you know when I first moved back to
Beijing you know I always find myself
struggling in the middle of the street
with my three young children I didn't
have a license plate to drive in Beijing
you need to have your license plate and
it's hard to get it's a lottery system
so and it's really hard to hail a taxi
and then I met didi at that time which
was a very young company and that
company was started in 2012 yes
2012 I met I met Heung whay the founder
in year 2013
when didi was 1 year old and I wanted to
make an investment you know at the
beginning I tried three times I failed
three Trestman on behalf of Goldman or
yourself on behalf of Goldman on behalf
of command and I was a very good Goldman
soldier and each time he said we don't
need your money or what yeah because
there are lines of investors waiting
outside India faster you know the
digital insurance process from Goldman
is actually quite strict so I felt I
always wanted to build something and
this thing seems to me huge impact right
so I think why do I just join him how
big was the company in 2014 when you
joined it was it was valued at around
500 million u.s. dollars and 700 people
and the only product we had was the
taxi-hailing app so that's you know when
I joined you know a lot of my friends
were my family advised me not because
because you know in China is very
competitive right and people think so
much uncertainty so what do you say to
the people that advise you not to join
now do you ever see them and say if I'd
listened to you I'd still be at Goldman
you never say that well actually you
know I hesitated right I hesitated to
you know when I sat down with Zhang Wei
say if you don't let me
best ink you let me joint you he didn't
back off which is surprised to me and
then you know I got hesitated when
people advised me not to so we went to
Tibet together with a group of seven
people it was a soul-searching trip and
after that I made up my mind ok and what
position do you join at chief operating
officer so you came from Goldman Sachs
but at Goldman you were not managing
hundreds and hundreds of people so how
could you be the chief operating officer
yeah there I didn't manage hundreds of
hundreds of people but I did see a lot
of business I did talk to a lot of you
know entrepreneurs and also I think it's
just in my gene you know I want to Butte
an organization that suits the you know
this generation and who were the big
investors in DD in the early days there
actually there a number of them the
strategic ones we have 10 cent
Alibaba we also have Tim Cook Apple you
know we also have a lot of very
well-known you know financial investors
and most of the investors were they
large institutional investors from the
United States or from China or from all
over the world mix ok it's pretty
diverse so when you join the company had
a market valuation of 500 million more
or less so let's suppose I say I like
what you said I'd like to invest at a
500 million dollar valuation could I do
that today
not really you know not even you're so
nice and friendly we're running one of
the biggest companies in China and one
of the bigger companies in the world in
terms of market value so how do you keep
that from going to your head it's very
challenging job you know when I first
joined this company I thought is the
technology company and now I know it's
about people it's about safety
so how do you get to work every day do
you take one of your yes yes if you were
you're taking one of your cars and you
don't like the service what do you say
did they know who everybody know who you
are you know the other day you know we
had this assignment that we have to
drive as well we have to you know test
the driver experience and the other day
you know I did with my colleague and we
pick up this young guy and my colleague
introduced to him this is our president
and we want to survey you some question
he didn't seem impress at all I said
whatever he said why don't you give me
some coupon if you want to survey me so
you know I guess I'm not a you know
celebrity very view well now you are now
widely viewed is one of the most
powerful women in business in China
women in business around the world and
not just a prominent woman you're a
prominent executive you're running one
of the biggest companies in China and
one of the bigger companies in the world
in terms of market value so how do you
keep that from going to your head
Wow good question actually you know I
think I really have a very tough job
right it's a very challenging job you
know when I first joined this company I
thought it's a technology company and
now I know it's about people it's about
safety you know last year there were two
terrible incidents happen on our
platform two young girls got killed it
was devastating
right and for all of the senior
executive ie the 25 year olds right you
know we sat together and think to
ourselves what's the next step right
this is much more challenging than when
Wilbur came in or when you know other
competition was the drive was the death
because of the driver did something
wrong yes
the driver yeah the driver was a
criminal so how do you screen those kind
of people in the future after so after
that now we launched more than 40
product features about safety facial
recognition right route sharing so
itinerary sharing so there 40 of them
but the challenge part is not about how
committed we can be for Safety's there
are a lot of dilemmas that I can ask our
data
scientist for an answer - it's a social
problem for example you know one dilemma
we face this do we allow drivers to
reject drunk passengers because there
are a lot of internal conflicts from
drunk passengers tend to assault drivers
right so drivers complain to us hundreds
of them complain to us daily saying can
we reach actor this drunk passenger do
we allow it or not what do you do we put
up a nationwide consultation forum and
we ask people's feedback 80% of them
thinks we shoot it's surprise to us
because our original concern was if we
let that happen then what if something
bad happened to the drunk passenger
right so what we do not encourage a
strong passenger to ride by themselves
they need to be accompanied by a sober
friend make sure your drivers are not
drunk
oh that's very easy that's very easy a
breathalyzer what do you do how do you
make sure yeah we have this SDK on other
drivers cell phones so if they drive
dangerously speed driving you know hard
brake hard turn we test it immediately
right and before he gets you know he
pick up order we would do a facial
recognition and their phone calls if we
see anything you know random so in the
United States there's a lot of
discussion about whether women are
allowed to get senior positions in
companies and very few fortune 500
companies actually are have CEOs as
women is it easier in China for a woman
to be a CEO of a company or harder well
I think you can't always be a CEO or
president but most of the time you're
not likeable
right because I think there's to a glass
ceiling in everywhere
but I think in China is already a very
encouraging work environment for example
in didi we have DD Women's Network we
launched a four years ago you know the
key point is to encourage women to plan
their career for next 30 years like
David you know when you were young you
must have planned your career for the
next 30 years but it's a it's a
challenge for young girls say what I
want to do for my next 30 years because
they always feel their life will pause
when they have kids when they get
married you know so we want to make sure
you know erima employee
whew they're empowered and you know
that's why we encourage a lot of you
know working from home right we
encourage a lot of culture like that
young mom can work from home one day a
week so just you have three young kids
do you work from home one day a week I
can't do that I can't today but my kids
are really big they're 10 and 9 so and
are they impressed with your job do they
know how powerful you are in the
business world or they don't really know
they know they know but you know they
don't think me as powerful they think
mom always have a lot of problems
because I do go back home and discuss
with them you know my work issues and
you know in my view you know the younger
generation Generation Z right they have
more access to information than we do so
I think they have very independent views
yeah so we talk a lot so for many women
in China and elsewhere but surely in
China you're a role model so how do you
fulfill that role do you speak to a lot
of women's groups do you tell women that
they should do X Y & Z to advance how do
you take on that responsibility well
first of all I think we are all learning
and growing I wouldn't consider myself
as a role model but I would consider
myself as someone who loved to share my
own life experience because you know I
have also experienced ups and downs
personally right and professionally so I
think the best way is to share your life
story without really telling people who
what to do right because people will get
inspired anyways now your father is a
very prominent person in the Chinese
business world and the global business
world Lenovo is a company that he
basically built does he give you advice
on what to do or he doesn't at this
point you know one one piece of advice I
got and benefit me for my whole life was
he always said life is supposed to be
hard right you know when we had our he
cub we had the incidents a lot of times
is you know it's frustrating right if
you helpless and hopeless like what
happened last year and you know I always
remember my father told me life is
supposed to be hard right so I think
that makes me more resilient
you know stronger so so far what would
you say you're most proud of having
achieved as the president of DD
well for the company I think I'm most
proud that we are providing 10 billion
trips a year and serving our different
type of need and we are creating income
for more than tens of millions of
drivers personally what makes me feel
you know proud is we have Butte you know
a team with resilience and commitment
and people feel this is the right thing
to do